
# Disability in the *New York Times*
This repository holds the metadata of disability-related articles from the *New York Times*. It was created by scraping data using the *Times*'s [Archive API](https://developer.nytimes.com/docs/archive-product/1/overview) and filtering it based on subject keywords provided for each article. This dataset has been created to encourage research into the representation of disability in the press over time. A historiolinguistic analysis of this data is being conducted using natural language processing techniques and will be added to the respository upon completion.

## Scripts
`get_all_data.py`
* Scrapes metadata from every available month and year up to and including April 2021
* Parses through the API response to retrieve a set of attributes
* Saves the resulting dataframe to `all_data.csv`

`disability_data.py`
* Uses the subject keywords attribute in `all_data.csv` to determine whether a given article is related to disability
* Filters disability-related article metadata (articles labeled with keywords "Disabilities", "Blindness", "Deafness", "Prostheses", and "AMPUTATION") and saves to `data.csv`

## Data
This repository includes `data.csv`, which contains the metadata for all *New York Times* articles with keywords related to disability.

Fields
* *date:* article publication date
* *headline:* main headline, may differ from print publication
* *abstract:* brief summary of article
* *document_type:* content format (i.e. Article vs. Interactive)
* *type_of_material:* content category (i.e. News vs. Editorial)
* *news_desk:* content "department" (i.e. Business vs. Food)
* *section_name:* content section within news desk (i.e. World vs. National)
* *subjects:* list of keywords associated with this article, used for grouping on website

Note: Due to its size, the file `all_data.csv` has not been included in this repository. However, it can be generated by running `get_all_data.py`.

## Analysis
I am currently analyzing this data along historical and linguistic axes and will push my work to this repository once I have completed that.
